GIRL 1: Who's in there?
GIRL 2: What is it?
GIRL 3: Oh. cool!
GUS: Please don't
touch it. Excuse me.
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Gus. Gus. Gus!
Where's your project.
Shawn? Did you even do it?
My project? Of course I did.
Uh-huh. when?
When? Last
night. It's right here.
GUS: This head
is to exact scale.
It took me three months to
make it. Yours took five minutes.
No. Gus. you're totally wrong. It
took me a whole hour. Check this out.
(ALL EXCLAIMING EXCITEDLY)
I hate you. Shawn.
Lompoc.
Okay. I did it.
(ALL CHEERING)
Seven in a row!
Eight. The gas station
guy confessed last week.
CARLTON: Oh. I
wouldn't call myself a hero.
I'm just doing my
job. just like all of you.
Hey. that's enough goofing off.
Let's get back to
work. huh? You. too.
Ladies and gentlemen.
Detective Lassiter.
CARLTON: Oh. stop it.
Jules. Shawn.
Is there a problem? With what?
With you? With
me? With the Chief?
She hasn't called in a month.
Is she still mad about me
requisitioning the Segway?
You did that?
No.
Well. I don't really
have time right now.
but the short answer is. we just
haven't really needed any outside help.
Well. what's the long answer?
I mean. throw a "but" in there.
and add something about a dream.
where you and I get thrown
out of a mattress showroom.
Detective Lassiter
is literally on fire.
What kind of fire
are we talking about?
Michael-Jackson-in-the-Pepsi-
commercial fire?
Or misusing-the-
word- "literally" fire?
He's-solved-eight-
cases-in-a-row fire.
Nine. I just remembered
the DeShano case.
Oh. hey. Shawn. What's new?
You still doing the psychic thing?
Is this some sort
of weird dream?
On the last two cases. the first
suspect Lassiter questioned confessed.
It's really magnificent.
We are talking about
Carlton Lassiter. right?
Yea high?
Bats ninth for the
department softball team?
Tenth. We play with a rover.
Spencer. long time. no
see. Or is that "no need"?
I can't believe this.
Oh. believe it. It's real.
They've done a preliminary on the
body down at the marina. Detective.
They're ready for
you at the scene.
Well. I would love to stay
and chat. but duty does call.
Oh. Spencer. you look so sad.
Come on. we'll show
you how real cops do it.
No comeback?
Shawn. that's
slightly embarrassing.
Where did you get that
toot... Suit... The toilet store?
(CAMERAS CLICKING)
Good luck with this one.
Detective. There's no identification.
Nobody's been reported
missing fitting this description.
Oh. Mr. Spencer. Surprised
you didn't take the Segway.
(SOFTLY) She
did know about that.
O'Hara just told me.
Traitor.
I'll deal with you later.
So. what's this new case we got?
A slight error in
grammar there. buddy.
Which part? Got.
I came all the way down
from the office. Shawn.
Gus. don't be a
giant snapping turtle.
We'll have a case
in five minutes.
Nobody can explain these puncture
wounds. We can't rule out an animal attack.
No. No. there's nothing in these
waters with a bite radius that large.
No. this is maybe a boating accident.
the wounds caused by some machinery.
I can't really be
sure at this juncture.
Completely stumped. Hmm.
You're getting
something. Mr. Spencer?
Yes.
Yes. I am.
No. no. no. no. no.
Hold on. okay. I've got it.
The wound on the head was
caused by the edge of a boat.
When he fell in the water.
unconscious. and the...
The wounds on the back. they were
caused by a large industrial crab trap.
Or a whale. Definitely
could have been a whale.
I mean. lost from his pod.
separated. migrating north or south.
and sees our man dead already.
floating up above the surface.
Thinks it's a seal. and then...
Whale.
A whale?
What's your guy got?
Watch and learn.
Jules. Watch and learn.
Or...
Detective. if you don't mind. I'd like
to see what Mr. Spencer has to offer.
All right. look. This is
gonna be a little rough. okay?
I didn't have time for shading.
there's no forced perspective.
If I'd really had my druthers. I
would have done it in charcoal.
You know what I'm talking about.
Look. what I'm trying to say is.
I'm not the artist I'd like to be...
You know what?
Mr. Spencer. enough.
Can you or can you not tell us
who's responsible for this man's death?
If I can present you with a
semi-accurate sketch of the culprit.
is that enough to
get us on this case?
Yes.
All right.
The puncture
wounds. they're the key.
giving me the impression that this
crime could only have been committed
by this guy.
This guy here.
Excuse me.
What?
Chief. where you off to?
So. what. that's a no? Gus?
This is not a boating accident.
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
You're mad.
No. I'm not mad.
I'm happy. I'm thrilled.
I love looking like an idiot.
Well. that explains your shoes.
You almost closed down our agency
with that little act of yours. Shawn.
Me? You're the one spending all your
extra time at your little side project.
You mean my real job?
Soon to be my only job?
Gus. you're
panicking. Don't panic.
Those bite marks are consistent
with a Tyrannosaurus bite.
You know that? Yes. I know that.
The hard way.
I was canned from the Wyoming Natural
History Museum for that little shot.
The bruises from the teeth didn't
go away for a year. but totally worth it.
It was my best screensaver ever.
Gus. please. connecting a dinosaur
to this case is the least of our worries.
Look. I can stash a toy dinosaur
in the window of the killer.
I can link him to a box of
Dino-bites or Fruity Pebbles.
I can play Six Degrees Of
Dinosaur with you. right now.
You've never been in a movie with
Kevin Bacon or a Dilophosaurus. have you?
How about you play Six
Degrees Of Kiss My Ass?
First of all. that sounds
like a totally disturbing game.
What's weird is that my guess on
the jaw radius was actually spot on.
It almost seems to make sense.
So now you're getting on
board with your own joke theory?
How are you gonna match your
bite radius to the victim. Shawn?
Drag the body to the
Wyoming museum.
Hmm.
I can do you one better.
What?
I need to borrow my Dad's truck.
You coming or what?
That's clearly a no.
The one thing we can be sure of is
the cause of death was not drowning.
Blunt force trauma to the head was
severe enough to knock him unconscious.
More than likely. he fell from some sort of a
platform after knocking himself on the head.
And this is how he
ended up in the water?
No. he landed on something
hard. Dislocated a rib.
He has bruises consistent
with a six. seven or eight-foot fall.
My guess is that he landed on something
else and ultimately expired before
tumbling into the water.
You know. this might be a leap. but
why don't we check the offshore oil rigs?
See if any of them
are missing workers.
I'll make some calls.
KAREN: Interesting. Detective.
Thanks. Chief. This theory
feels good. It just makes sense.
The work boots. the odd
configuration of the wounds.
You know us. Ted.
it's worth a shot. right?
We don't go out on limbs
too often at the SBPD...
SHAWN: Thank you. I just
need to measure something.
Oh. good. you're all here.
Get ready to be shocked.
Can we get the sheet
off the dead guy. please?
SHAWN: Confirming
the bite radius.
KAREN: No. Mr. Spencer.
Whoa. whoa. Hey. hey.
be careful. This isn't mine.
Mr. Spencer. your antics have always
been a little. let's say. unorthodox.
But let me be as frank as I can be with my
assessment of your most recent behavior.
Seek help.
Chief. sometimes you have to jump
off a cliff. You have to close your eyes.
You have to unhook
your clip. chassis...
(CHANGING
PRONUNCIATION) Chassis?
Climbing thing.
And you have to leap.
Now. I ask you. Chief.
will you leap with me?
Are you thinking
about jumping off a cliff?
Maybe.
Yo.
Dad?
I brought the keys back. Hello?
Okay. This is creepy.
Why is Gus here?
What do you think. Shawn?
He's a hostage?
Perhaps I can shed
some light on that.
Two hostages?
Doug Devette is an old
colleague of mine from the force.
The Chief asked me
to have him drop by.
Why?
Doug is the department
psychologist. Shawn.
What is this. some
sort of intervention?
Yeah. Sort of.
We don't like to use the
term "intervention". Shawn.
Gus? Don't look at me.
I'm here for the cupcakes.
Dad. I am not on drugs.
Oh. nobody thinks that. Shawn.
Well. I'm not completely
sure about that. Doug.
We're all just a
little concerned
that you might be stretching
yourself a bit too thin.
Wasn't my idea. But he's right.
Shawn. You're acting like a nut job.
Just because I take
Gus' giant dinosaur head
down to a dead body
does not make me a nut job.
What?
You took my T-Rex?
My mom gave it to you?
Gladly.
She also gave me some pictures you can
pay me to not show your next girlfriend.
What pictures?
The ones that document your
Terence Trent D'Arby phase.
Whatever. Shawn. You took
Danny Dino to the police station?
No.
Gus. give me some credit.
I took him to the morgue.
Good news. Your
specifications were spot on.
Your father tells me you have
delusions of magical powers.
Delusions?
Really?
Doug. I'm employed as a psychic.
I've solved eighteen
cases this year.
I have business cards and a personalized
coffee mug that backs up the whole thing.
I feel things about people.
You. for instance.
are colorblind.
That's nothing to be ashamed of.
You're also really
stressed about something.
College.
It can be very expensive. Doug.
Oh. wow. that was good. Henry.
Doug. do not be a stooge.
I'm not a stooge. but in
this one case. he was right.
Knock at door.
(KNOCK AT DOOR)
Karen. do you mind? We're in
the middle of an intervention here.
We don't have time for that. But
you're the one who asked for this!
And I thank you. Henry. but
I'm afraid that this can't wait.
We just got a break in the case.
We just found out the
name of the dead man.
You wanna tell him
who he is. Detective?
No.
His name was
Christopher Franzen.
He was a paleontologist.
A dinosaur hunter.
As expected.
Doug. pleasure was all mine.
Oh. no. Shawn. mine.
We should get together.
GUS: All right. here's
what we know so far.
A man. a paleontology professor.
washes ashore with
wounds specific to a dinosaur.
I don't think we can
rule out the possibility
of an island somewhere in the
Pacific where dinosaurs do exist.
And have an appetite
for Jeff Goldblum.
I'm being serious. Shawn.
Well. look who's Mr. Onboard.
And sounding like
a whacked wombat.
Then what is it? I don't know.
It actually scares me that my wild dinosaur
reach landed so close to the bull's-eye.
This guy was possibly killed
by something dinosaur related.
but it was probably a model or
something from the archeology department.
We'll have to spend the
better part of the next 24 hours
sifting through their
entire collection of artifacts.
And by we. I mean. mostly you.
This is all there is?
No. No. no. no. no.
This is just the big stuff.
We got the trilobites in a shoe
box. but the shelf is kind of high.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
You've got Pinhead. Chatterbox.
Surgeon and Stitch up there on a shelf?
Shawn. those are Cenobites.
Huh. well what are trilobites?
Fish fossils.
Oh. Gus.
for my sake. at least pretend like you don't
know this stuff off the top of your head.
Do this move.
Tri... Trilo...
What? It'll help
you. I'm serious.
Look. Ethan.
I can honestly say there were
more historically significant items
in the lost and found at the
Taco John's in Porterville.
Yeah. Yeah. it's a little sad.
Word is. the whole
program is going under.
You sure about that?
Look. Professor Franzen would
never really give us a straight answer.
In fact. most nights. he wasn't
around to give us any answers.
He was a pretty crappy advisor.
And when he did show up. he was
late. tired. completely disheveled.
All right? Nobody
really trusted the guy.
Look. do not ever
take a class from him.
He's dead.
Oh. yeah. Then. totally.
Well. this sure was a dead end.
Yep. But at least we were the
first ones to find the dead end.
Oh. come on. He
really is on fire. Literally.
GUS: Look at this. The cops
beat us to the dead guy's house.
I don't know how I feel about the
police department being so proactive.
Feeling the heat?
What. you think I'm afraid
of a little competition?
I know you're
afraid of competition.
Why else would you have purposefully
broken the Battlezone at Pizza Royale?
Dude. you beat me once and only
because you first used the eyepiece
and then revealed
you had pink eye.
Ah.
Let's venture off
the beaten path.
What's wrong?
I'm just trying to figure
out what to do here.
since. as a rule. we
don't break and enter.
What do you mean. we
don't break and enter?
The 2400 Motel.
the Hotel de la Cruz.
the Spellmaster's box.
Yeah. but we really
shouldn't pick this lock.
You know I wanna pick that lock.
Yes. I do.
Watch out.
What are you.
the lock whisperer?
(HIGH-PITCHED GASPING)
Channeling Michael Jackson?
(CLICKS) Shh!
Who heard the second click?
I heard the second click.
Really?
Come on!
I can't see anything.
Oh. I got it. I got it.
(GROANS)
Gus. that thing is
brighter than the sun.
I think you just
gave me glaucoma.
You can't give someone glaucoma.
Thank you.
Wow. this is better than the
entire university department.
Sure is.
And his digging equipment is some heavy-duty
stuff. Looks like some shovels are missing.
GUS: Part of a
portable light kit.
A lot of brushes.
And fine finishing equipment. which I
would assume he was only using in the lab.
Dude. I got something. What?
He was the worst tic-tac-toe
player in the history of the world.
I'm investigating. and
you're analyzing his doodles?
Doodles are the
window to the soul. Gus.
Maybe that's the epiglottis.
Where's the uvula?
Lassiter's here.
That guy's. like. five minutes
behind us. everywhere we go.
Don't sleep in the nude tonight.
Spencer. enjoying your
time riding my behind?
Definitely not in the nude.
This lock is too high-tech
for a backyard shed.
We got to find somebody
who can crack the code.
There's already someone
here who can do that.
That person
is me.
Well. make yourself useful.
I need you to step back. please.
Give me some room to operate.
Further. please.
Further. Jules. could
you help me out here?
Just get him back onto the
cobblestone. That's good. That's good.
Thank you.
(CLEARS THROAT)
(SIGHS)
I am sensing
the first two digits.
(SOFTLY) What is it. 31?
Gus. help me out
here. Come on. buddy.
Pfft!
You can have my
Tony Gwynn rookie.
Twenty-five.
Twenty
five.
Eight? Three.
Three.
Four? Two.
And two.
There's one more.
Wait. There's one more.
Nine.
That's amazing.
I'll give you that one.
I can't see a thing in
here. GUS: Oh. I got it.
Wait. I'm sensing
a light switch.
Tools are missing.
Good work. Detective.
He had a blunt force trauma. That could
be supplied by one of these missing items.
Maybe this rock hammer.
or this medium shovel.
But where would they be?
In the bed of his pickup. It wasn't
parked out front or at the university.
We find that truck. we
find the murder weapon.
Let's go. O'Hara.
burning daylight.
Excuse us.
Man. you missed the truck?
I'm not the psychic.
What?
Why would someone frequent a
fruit stand that's over 50 miles away?
They like pomegranate?
Yeah. I know him. He
was my best customer.
Don't know his name. But he
comes by every night before closing.
Did you ever see
which way he went?
Yeah.
Always up the hill.
That's all I'd see.
Although. every once in a while
I see him come back down
the hill. early in the morning.
Hmm. Well.
thank you very much.
Gus. you got anything else?
Yes. Is that peach
pie in the back?
Yeah.
Another dead-end.
Let's turn around.
No! Hold on a second.
This looks like a place
someone's been sneaking into.
SHAWN: What is this?
Looks like some kind of
farm land or grazing plain.
Oh. look at that. This is like that
movie. the one with Sigourney Weaver.
Aliens? No.
Alien?
No. Alien: Resurrection.
Gus. the one with the
holes and Shia LaBeouf.
They had holes in Shia LaBeouf?
The holes are in the
ground. dude. Like that.
And Jon Voight was
walking around all crazy.
Oh. Anaconda.
Man. never mind.
Gorillas in the Mist?
Death and the Maiden?
No.
Half Moon Street?
Just let it go.
I'll be damned.
(GUN FIRES)
What? Somebody's shooting at us!
(GUS SCREAMING)
Oh. God. They're shooting
at us! GUS: We're gonna die!
SHAWN: For sure! Run.
Gus! Gus. run like the wind!
Get up!
(BOTH GASPING)
GUS: Okay. Hold the door.
Come on. get in the
car! Hurry up. Shawn!
Start it! Start it! Go! Go!
Dude! Look at the road
when you're driving!
I'm staying down for safety.
He was shooting
directly into the air. Gus.
Bullets go up. they
have to come down.
Do you know what the trajectory
would have to be for that to happen?
Don't you dare argue
physics with me.
Not while in the process
of almost being killed.
Didn't you see the
"Trespassers Will Be Shot" sign?
Oh. yeah. it totally said that.
My bad.
Mr. Spencer. if you have
any substantial information
concerning the Christopher
Franzen case. please get on with it.
(CLUCKS)
I've got something.
It's a cluck.
A cluck?
(CLUCKING)
Actually. there's
two. Two clucks?
A cluck. cluck here.
A cluck. cluck there.
Here a cluck. there a...
Cluck?
Everywhere a...
(CLUCKING)
Let me guess. You have a
name. Macdonald. perhaps?
No. No. it's a farm. With
a farmer. An old farmer.
Farmer "Shootypants."
That's a nickname. I don't
think that's his actual handle.
CARLTON: I got it!
Lassiter found the
paleontologist's truck.
You helped.
I did help. It was his hunch.
It was down at the Old
Marina. I just had a feeling.
I also found the prints of a certain
grad student named Ethan Robinson.
along with a stack of
letters from said grad student
demanding the professor
stop ruining his life.
We're sending a car
over to pick him up.
Oh. I'm sorry. Am I
interrupting your trance?
I don't buy it.
Which part? The damning
evidence or the murder weapon?
There's more going on in this
guy's life. Chief. I'm sensing...
Digging.
Yeah. the archeology
department was going under.
He was trying to make a big discovery.
put them on the map. get more funding.
The farm. I can see the
name of the farm. It's Wa...
Wal...
Walker Farms. Yeah. we got that
lead off the phone records. Yesterday.
Apparently. our victim made a
series of phone calls to the farmer.
trying to buy some of his
land. but it wasn't for sale.
The farmer was
forthcoming. cooperative...
Definitely not a suspect.
Anything else?
I have to say. you have
been very thorough.
We're just doing what
any good cops would do.
(GASPS)
Shawn. what are you doing?
Yeah. what are we doing. Shawn?
I need to borrow some
tools. What kind of tools?
Digging tools. A little excavation
project we've got going on.
Are you still on
that dinosaur thing?
We're still on that
dinosaur thing?
What. is there an echo in here?
Yes. we're still on
the dinosaur thing.
We stepped foot on the far end
of this guy Walker's farm in Ojai.
and he starts blasting
us with buckshot.
We know our dead guy was there
every night leading up to his death.
digging around the
periphery of this property.
No. Shawn. Wait. I don't
want you borrowing my tools.
Gus will leave his
class ring as collateral.
No. I won't. No. I won't.
Yes. you will. Sure. you will.
No. I won't. I
can't support this.
Well. there's a shocker.
you not being supportive.
Would you shut up and listen?
I'm saying I can't support you going
somewhere where you could get shot.
What are you... Are
you worried about me?
Shawn. I've been worried about
you since you were three years old
and started eating
your own toenails.
Well. Dad. I'll be fine. Okay? We're
not gonna go anywhere near the house.
And if it'll make you feel any better. I
will stand behind Gus the entire time.
No. you won't. No.
you won't. Yes. I will.
Oh. yes. I will. You wanna bet?
I don't like it. It
doesn't feel right.
I know feelings.
Pardon me?
Did you just say.
"I know feelings"?
GUS: Perfect. This will be easy.
No. there's a pattern here.
Those guys dig with a reason.
How do you know that?
Because I worked at the museum for almost
an entire weekend before I got canned.
SHAWN: He was the worst tic-tac-toe
player in the history of the world.
(SOFTLY) Wait a second.
Those weren't tic-tac-toe boards.
Those were all the places he dug.
There were. like.
twenty-five X's.
No way he scored that often.
The X's were misses. In
this case. O marks the spot.
And that's the O.
This is the only hole
filled by a bulldozer.
No self-respecting paleontologist
would use a bulldozer.
Why do you know that?
Because. Shawn. if you use...
Gus. I don't actually
wanna know.
Then don't ask.
Here.
This shouldn't take
long. Grab a shovel.
And keep an eye
out for that farmer.
How you doing on your side?
Good! Solid!
Holding up.
Shawn! What?
I'm keeping watch. That's
how the other guy died.
What? You're not concerned?
All right. I get it!
It's my turn.
(SHAWN GRUNTING)
This is the end of the
loose dirt. Be careful.
This is weird.
What? That there's
rocks in the ground?
These aren't rocks.
These are fossils. But they've
been processed. finished off. Residue.
Rocks chipped away. Stuff
you would normally do in a lab.
Franzen found something.
Why wouldn't he just take it out
and do the work in the lab
where it should be done?
Unless...
Unless it was too big to move.
Dude. I'm gonna
get the leaf blower.
You brought a leaf blower?
(COUGHING)
You got to be kidding me.
I just discovered a dinosaur.
Filling that hole was
the worst idea ever.
Huh. It had to be done. Gus.
We have to save it for when
we unmask Franzen's killer.
I still don't get it.
He was on the trail of a...
Of a fossil graveyard. It led
him right to Deacon Farms.
the farmer wouldn't
let him dig on the land.
so he takes matters into
his own hands after hours.
Why wouldn't the
farmer let him dig?
Maybe he didn't want
his farm disturbed.
A dig like that is worth
millions to a landowner.
And the fossils I discovered
weren't even on crop land.
You discovered?
Don't try to take away my
dinosaur discovery. Shawn.
I wouldn't dream of it. I'm sorry. it
was all you. I'm pretty proud of you.
Don't you think once
they unearth that thing.
there would be a swarm of people
crashing in from all over the world?
Why didn't he just
lease the land?
I don't get it.
I've got an idea.
What?
Let's ask him.
We're pretty sure we just
found a cold-blooded murderer.
and you wanna go to his
house and ask him about it?
We can ask nicely. No.
All right. all right. We
come up with a cover story.
We're vacuum salesmen. No.
Traveling gypsies. No. no. no.
We'll do Of Mice and
Men. I'm Lennie. No.
(CHILD-LIKE VOICE) George.
you said that I could take
care of those rabbits. George.
Shawn...
And later on you're
going to cook those beans.
Shawn!
Beans make me go...
No Lennie.
Gus. you know how long I've
been waiting to pull out my Lennie?
No. Shawn. We do the National
Paleontology Society thing. as agreed.
And we keep it
very. very simple.
It's not as much fun as
whipping out my Lennie.
And why are we stopping here?
Have you tried these peaches?
You're back? Yes. sir we are.
We're addicted to your citrus.
Peaches aren't citrus.
Shawn. They're stone fruit.
It's the same thing.
No. not the same thing.
They have pits. peaches.
cherries. plums and apricots.
I can't do this with you right now.
Does your fruit come from Walker Farms?
Oh. no. We grow on our
own little parcel of land.
Deacon Walker Farms used to
be a supplier of ours years ago.
but they don't grow nearly
as much as they used to.
Thank you so much
for your information.
If you have a moment. my friend and I would
like to buy every peach on that truck.
Including the one you're eating.
You're sure you don't want
to do Of Mice and Men?
You so much as slur one word.
I'll give you an Indian burn so
hot. your socks will catch fire.
Indian burn? Haven't been
threatened with that this millennium.
Take your shot if
your ulna feels safe.
I don't think the
ulna is in the forearm.
Trust me. it is.
How can you Indian burn a bone?
Stop analyzing my threat.
Get it right. I got it right.
Deacon Walker?
Sullivan Walker.
Is Deacon Walker home?
There is no Deacon Walker.
That's confusing.
I got nothing. Gus?
Then why name the farm
Deacon Walker Farms?
It used to be called
Deacon Walker.
Roger Deacon was my
partner. He's not anymore.
Oh. That cleans it up
nicely. May we come in?
No. What do you want?
We're from the National
Paleontological Society...
Not interested.
Clearly. he's not interested.
We would like to make you a very sizable
offer on a very small portion of your...
(CHILD-LIKE VOICE) Hello.
my name is Lennie. I like to...
You think he'd open
up if we knocked again?
I'm glad it only took us
an hour to get up here.
Not like I wasted a whole day.
Franzen dug up here. too?
No. he didn't.
These are all new and dug with a
bulldozer. A real paleontologist...
Would never use such
an indelicate tool. I got it.
So. our farmer's
been digging. too?
Right. but if the goldmine's out
there. why is he digging over here?
(PHONE RINGING)
It's my Dad. Think he
wants his leaf blower back?
Shawn? Shawn. you're not anywhere
near that farmhouse. are you?
Dad. how dare
you? Of course not.
Good. Stay away. Shawn. I
know where I remember that farm.
Deacon Walker Farm. I was
up there about 20 years ago.
A girl reported that her boyfriend
went missing. Roger Deacon.
He was a partner in the farm.
He was never found. Shawn.
Never found?
That's right. the farmer claimed he
went back to England or some nonsense.
The point is. we never
found out where he went.
I think I might
know where he is.
Where?
I might be looking at him.
Shawn? Got to go.
Shawn! God...
Dude. What?
It now appears a lot of our
evidence is circumstantial.
I mean. we're checking
the grad student's alibi.
but I'm not as confident
as I'd like to be.
Shawn Spencer's on line one.
What does he want?
He wants us to go meet him
in the Ojai Valley somewhere.
We're in the middle
of the Franzen case.
I told him that.
He guarantees that in ten minutes.
he can solve the case. nab the killer.
close an additional
unsolved murder and...
And what?
Unearth a dinosaur.
Well. I'm curious.
This is as far as
my property goes.
That's all there is.
Well. I've answered all your questions.
Detective. What more do you want from me?
I'm not entirely sure. sir.
We just have one more
person we need you to talk to.
Lennie?
Don't even ask.
My name is not
Lennie. Mr. Walker.
But if it were. I would
have been amazing.
No. you wouldn't have. It
would've brought tears. Gus.
Guys. the point?
The truth is I'm a psychic.
I work for the SBPD.
And the mystic vibrations of the sea
have brought me here to solve not one.
but two murders.
You're a what?
Christopher Franzen was a
persistent annoyance. huh?
He couldn't help it. His
department was going under.
He was desperate to find something
significant to save his career.
And he knew that your
property held the key.
But you wouldn't let him dig.
You couldn't let him dig.
So he did what any
self-respecting paleontologist
on the verge of a nervous
breakdown would do.
He dug anyway. secretly.
under the blanket of night.
and into the early morning.
And he dug. and he dug.
And he found something.
And that's when you found him.
You knew the
magnitude of the find.
Once word got out. you'd
never be able to keep
the rest of the world
from digging here. too.
And you couldn't have the rest of the
world digging here either. could you?
Shawn!
Dad? What are you doing here?
I was worried.
About my tools.
(SIGHS)
What?
If I'd known that you're finally
smart enough to bring some back-up.
I wouldn't have to
come up here. Shawn.
Shawn. will you tell them why
Walker wouldn't let them dig?
Roger Deacon.
Deacon is buried
on the property!
Dad! Dad. you just
blew the big reveal.
You already mentioned
his name. Shawn.
They don't know that Deacon was
the partner Walker killed 20 years ago.
Hey. now. wait a minute here.
He what. now?
Yeah. he killed Deacon and he
buried him somewhere on the farm.
and he can't remember where.
Isn't that right. Farmer Shootypants?
I don't have to stand
here and take this.
No. actually. you do.
What does this have to do
with Christopher Franzen?
He killed Franzen when he caught him
standing above his dinosaur skull discovery.
sending him flying right
into the teeth of the dinosaur.
But he couldn't bury
him here. No. no. no.
He had called the farm. he had snooped around
the farm. there was a trail to the farm. No.
He had to dump him somewhere
where there would be no forensics.
Like the ocean.
Just let the saltwater clean the corpse
and wash it ashore. And the murder scene?
Well. he hopped on his handy
bulldozer and filled the hole.
I'm getting a bad
feeling about your streak.
You. too. huh?
I think I need a lawyer.
I think you're right. Put
your hands behind your back.
What? You heard me.
You still haven't answered the question why
he dug all the holes around the house. Shawn.
(WHISPERING)
Dad. that's the finale.
That's why I don't
invite you to these things.
He was looking for
Deacon's body. whatever.
Are we done here. Mr. Spencer?
No. we're not done.
For my final demonstration.
I will now discover a dinosaur.
Shawn!
Actually.
Gus will discover a dinosaur.
Wait a second. You just
want me to dig this hole.
I do not.
I'm not falling for that.
Shawny boy. You dig it.
Fine. I'll take credit
for the discovery.
Oh. no. you won't.
Give me that shovel.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
It's too late. You blew it.
And whoever discovers it gets
to name it. I'm naming him Zippy.
Or Chompy. Zippy the
Dinosaur. discovered by...
By psychic paleo-sleuth.
Shawn Spencer.
Give me this shovel. Shawn!
Killed by a dinosaur.
And he's right. It was
an actual dinosaur.
Technically. it's the
fall that killed him.
Not helping.
Oh. come on. Who am
I kidding? I am doomed.
I am never gonna suspect an extinct
creature. How can I compete with that?
You don't have to compete.
O'Hara. I am physically incapable
of pointing the finger at a dragon.
or a leprechaun. or
the Loch Ness monster.
I quit. I'm gonna donate
my badge to charity.
It was a good run. Carlton.
All streaks have to end.
Lou Boudreau fielded the ball
cleanly. You have to let it go.
Who the hell is Lou Boudreau?
He recorded the out that ended DiMaggio's
hit streak. Don't you watch baseball?
Of course I watch baseball. I just don't
know meaningless facts from 75 years ago.
Sixty-six.
You disturb me.
Do you need a hug?
Oh. what do I look like?
Yeah. I'll take the hug.
Okay. thanks. Okay.
Oh. come on. you guys. We're
still doing this intervention thing?
Yes. Yes. Shawn. we are.
Son. you have no
sense of responsibility.
And lately. you've been
purposefully putting yourself
in a severe amount
of unnecessary danger.
On top of which. you are
constantly belittling the good...
Actually. Henry. I
stretched the truth a bit.
This isn't about Shawn.
This is about you.
What?
Can we talk about your
obsessive need for control?
You come into my house.
Devette. you lie to me?
Let's try to be rational.
Did you really drive all the way up to Ojai
just to crash Shawn's crowning moment?
Get out.
Henry. we're here for
you. At least listen...
Out. now.
Get out! Out!
SHAWN: I'd like to start.
When I was about seven...
In between the lines
there's a lot of obscurity
I'm not inclined to
resign to maturity
If it's all right then
you're all wrong
But why bounce around
to the same damn song?
You'd rather run
when you can't crawl
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
I know. you know